= rdbi-dbd-rubyfb

An RDBI driver for Firebird databases using the rubyfb bindings by George
Georgiev.

== Project home

https://github.com/pilcrow/rdbi-driver-rubyfb

== Related software

* Ruby: ruby-lang.org
* Firebird: www.firebirdsql.org
* rubyfb: https://github.com/georgiev/rubyfb
* RDBI: http://rdbi.hollensbe.org/

== Tested configuration(s)

ruby 1.9.2, Firebird 2.1.3, RDBI 0.9.1 and rubyfb 0.5.5.

Should work under ruby 1.8.7, as well.  Firebird >= 1.5 needed (for CASE
support under the hood).

== Driver Quirks, Incompleteness and Brokenness

=== Result Sets
By default, +rewindable_result+ is false and query result sets are "forward
only" iterables, such that any attempt to look behind the current fetch index
is an error.

If +rewindable_result+ is true, +rdbi-driver-rubyfb+ provides fully rewindable
(and, indeed, random access) cursors which have the side effect of reading
the entire result set into memory.

=== Transactions
* "Manual commit" only
  There is _no_ autocommit mode at present.  This may change in a future
  release, but you should use explicit transactions anyway.

* Transactional DDL requires commit
  Firebird supports transactional DDL like other industrial databases.
  However, DDL statements must be committed before their effects are
  visible to subsequent DML/query statements.

  For example, this won't work:

    dbh.transaction do
      dbh.execute('create table TBL (I integer not null)')
      dbh.execute('insert into TBL (I) values (?)', 1) # Error: "TBL" not yet
                                                       # visible
    end

  Instead do this:

    dbh.transaction do
      dbh.execute('create table ...')
      ... other DML ...
    end
    dbh.transaction do
      dbh.execute('insert into ...')
    end

=== Types

* Fixed-length CHAR fields are automatically right-trimmed.
  Firebird and Interbase databases pad CHAR columns with spaces.  (In strict
  SQL trailing spaces are ignored on string comparisons, so 'foo   ' = 'foo'.)

* TIMESTAMPs are understood _in the local time zone_
  There is currently no way to override this.

* BOOLEANs perhaps not supported
  Not all Firebird/Interbase databases offer a native BOOLEAN type, instead
  using CHAR(1) or SMALLINT flags, or user-defined SQL DOMAINs.  Firebird
  3.0 offers a BOOLEAN type.

=== RDBI Compliance

* +table_schema+ does not yet support +default+ column values

== Running tests

Tests make use of the RDBI::DBRC role 'rubyfb_test' to test against a local
database.  On a *NIX system, your ~/.dbrc might look like this:

    rubyfb_test:
      driver: Rubyfb
      user: SYSDBA        # $ISC_USER, if omitted
      password: masterkey # $ISC_PASSWORD, if omitted
      database: employee

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Michael Pomraning. See LICENSE for details.
